# Object management

- defined by yaml manifests
```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
    name: nginx
    labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
        image: nginx:latest
```
- should version
- metadata name 
    - must be unique in the same namespace
    - max 253 characters
    - `a-zA-Z0-9-\.` are allowed
- objects have an unique id generated (uid)
- labels 
    - key value pairs
    - help you organized (eg. app, env, context)
    - you can select objects by label, eg. `kubectl get pods --selector=app=nginx`
    - 

## Controller objects
- Deployment
- StatefulSet
- DeamonSet
- Job

### Deployments
- managed by the `deployment controller` from `kube-controller-manager`
- can run replicas of Pods
- can do much more

## Resource management for Pods and Containers
- Important that containers have enough resources to run.
- Applications could use more resources than they should.
- CPU and memory (RAM) resources are the most common resources specified.

## Namespaces
- split a phisical cluster in multiple clusters
- provide scope for naming resources as Pods, Deployments and controllers
- let you define resources quotas
- useful for separate environments
- initial namespaces
    - `Default` - new objects go here by default
    - `Kube-system` - objects by k8s (ConfigMaps, Secrets, Controllers, Deployments)
    - `Kube-public` - for objects that are publicly readable in the cluster
- specify with `-n name`
- preferably not put namespaces in yaml files

## Services
provide load-balanced access to Pods
- ClusterIP: Exposes the service on an IP address that is only accessible from within this cluster. This is the default type.
- NodePort: Exposes the service on the IP address of each node in the cluster, at a specific port number.
- LoadBalancer: Exposes the service externally, using a load balancing service provided by a cloud provider.

## Controller objects
- ReplicaSets - ensures a population of identical Pods run
- Deployments 
    - let you create, update, roll back and scale Pods using ReplicaSets
    - rolling upgrade is done by adding a new ReplicaSet - increase new, decrease old
- Replication Controllers - similar to ReplicaSets, not recommended any more
- StatefulSets
    - maintain local states
    - pods have persistent identities with stable network identity
    - persistent disk storage
- DaemonSets
    - can run pods on all/a selection of nodes
    - will create pods on new nodes automatically
    - eg. logging agent
- Jobs - for tasks that get completed and terminate
    - related CronJob - on a time based schedule
